So let's do an improvement to the current tasks that we have. So right now we are watching for changes for
all our tasks in the "watch" task here.
So let's open our website and make sure you have your MAMP server open.
And let's run
"gulp"
"gulp dev".
And out watch is watching for changes right?
So let's go to the bundle.scss
and the header.
And let's change this color.
And the "styles" task run. And then in the browser we have to go and refresh.
I think we maybe you need to disable the cache.
So here we have. So evertime we need to change something in the JavaScript or CSS or PHP we need to go back to the
browser and refresh.
So we can actually automate this refresh thing.
So whenever we change anything the browser will refresh automatically.
So to do this let's go to search for "browser sync".
And install it.
So this is the plugin that will help us control the browser.
I mean refresh it or do other things but for in our case we'll just need to refresh.
So we don't need to write the "-g" here.
We just need to install it for this project so "--save-dev".
So it's now installed so let's go to the documentation.
and we'll find a gulp integration documentation here. So let's just do it in the gulpfile.
So the first thing that we need to import it.
So "import
browserSync from 'browser-sync'"
and they do and then we need to create a new browserSync server.
So browserSync actually create a mini server. So to do that we will call the creator function on the browserSync
object.
So now we will have our server but it's not started yet. So we need to create a task to start the server.
So I'm gonna create a new task and call it "serve"
And this time we need the done() function.
So I'm gonna post in the argument. And then to initialize the server
we need to call "server.init". And then in the options we have a key of "proxy". And then inside of it
the URL of our MAMP server.
So what they're doing here is we are kind of wrapping our MAMP server in the browserSync server in
order to use the browserSync features.
So here is my
URL, yours could be different. And then call "done()" to let Gulp know that we've done our task. And we'll
create another task. And this task will refresh the browser. So "export const reload"
and it need the "done()" also. And just call "server.reload".
That's it.
And call "done()" of course.
So when do we need to run the "serve" task? It's one we thought our development, right?
So before watching here I'm gonna run the "serve" task.
And when do we need to reload the browser?
After a file is changed.
Right?
So in the "watch" task after a SASS file is changed
we run the "styles" task. And after the "styles" task is done we need to refresh the browser.
Right?
So we run "gulp.series" and call the "styles" and after the style is done we will call the "reload" task.
And same for "scripts"
"gulp.series", "scripts" first
and then when it's done we reload the browser. And let's do also the same thing for the "images".
And the "copy" task .
So now whenever a task is done the "reload" task will be called.
One more thing we need also to reload when a PHP file is changed.
So if you change something in one of our templates like the index.php we need also to refresh the browser
to see the change.
So let's watch for
all PHP files in the root folder or any top folder,
and call "reload".
We don't have any other tasks that we do for the PHP files so we just reload.
Great.
I think that will do it.
So let's try it out.
Let's run
"dev".
and as you can see now our URL is changed.
It's now running in port 3000 and you should always use
the URL that browserSync gave you in order to use browsingSync features. If we use the old one,
the MAMP one, it will still work but the browser not refreshed and any other browserSync features.
Ok.
So let's now try and change something and see if the browser will refresh. So I'm gonna,
I need to split screen here.
in order to see both. And let's change something in index.php.
So let's remove the title. And save and as you can see it's automatically refreshed
Great.
So let's try the CSS.
The header file and let's try "blue".
And it did refresh actually but we have this caching issue.
We need to disable any bug in chrome. So browser is horrible actually so let's go back to white.
So as  you can see, it automatic, it's automatically refreshed.
So great. So one more improvement actually we can do in the CSS is that we can
in the gulpfile.
Let's remove the "reload" part from the watching the SASS files, and call just "styles".
So we just reverted back to the old code here and browserSync actually has a really cool feature.
If you're running a CSS task you can call pipe after the "dest" pipe, you can call pipe
again and inside of it "server.stream".
And this will inject the CSS in the browser in your document without even refreshing the page.
So.
Ok.
So let's try it out. Let's
rerun the "dev" task.
And let's
split screen here.
And go to CSS file and change the color again.
And I don't know, I don't know, if you can tell but trust me it's not refreshing.
It's actually changing without even refreshing.
So that's raised right.
I think this section maybe have taken too long. But I think we're really doing some great stuff here.
And you can use this knowledge in any other project or any other theme.
We still have some a couple of other things before finalizing this you know JavaScript section and getting back
to WordPress.
So next lecture we will discuss how to bundle your theme for production.